# What Solutions Can the Analysis of Bike-Sharing System Data Bring to the Idea of Smart Cities?

The project’s aim is to explore applications of Bike-Sharing System analysis in the context of Smart Cities and conduct a data analysis of bike-sharing system’s operational data of a bike sharing system to better understand the system as well as find insights that will become useful in the broader analysis of mobility patterns for the purpose of bringing modern cities closer to the idea of smart cities. The method will consist of a spatial and temporal analysis. Spatial analysis will be done using Leiden algorithm and its aim will be to detect groups and communities of stations inside the system’s network to better understand the structure of the system. The temporal analysis will be done using the hierarchical clustering algorithm to split the stations into groups based on their rent and return distributions to uncover mobility patterns. The results of both analyses will be analysed in the context of their usefulness in the broader scope of smart cities to determine how the analysis of bike sharing systems’ data can help to make cities smarter. This study uses Python programming language as the main tool for data pre-processing and data analysis. The data used in this study comes from the bike-sharing system Divvy that is located in Chicago. It has 659 stations, which is considered a large bike-sharing system. This study uses trip data that is generated automatically whenever a customer rents or returns a bicycle to a station in the system. The practical aim of this study is to also apply smart city principles of optimisation, better managing resources and the use of information technology into a bike-sharing system.
